# feat: propagate op service account token

**Tensho** commented *Feb 25, 2026*

Gruntwork doesn't allow to propagate any sensitive information in their [default `pipelines.yml` workflow](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/pipelines-workflows/blob/main/.github/workflows/pipelines.yml#L52). Also, they don't intend to add this capability due to potential secrets exfiltration threat:

> For example, having the ability to deploy to production is only possible when a change hits `main`, and the IaC being updated is in the `prod` directory, as the filter for prod matches those directories. You can't create a PR that changes the values for the environment, have the PR run against your branch and destroy prod because the trust policy on the OIDC assumed principal only trusts the `main` branch. This allows folks to have pretty granular access control.

If we added the option for clients to pass their own secrets, we'd want the secrets to be stored securely, and accessed only from environments that were allowed to access them (with protection against the kind of tampering I mentioned above). If we just exposed arbitrary secrets from GitHub Actions workflows, you could potentially exfiltrate secrets in a PR you propose if you were clever enough.
`
When you access secrets from your cloud provider (e.g. accessing the value of `OP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN` from a GCP principal), you'll achieve those security guarantees. You'll only have access to the value in the context where trusted workflows should have access to it, and you can achieve those same granular access control rules (e.g. Only allow users to fetch the `OP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN` from the apply service principal used in the prod environment).

This fork propagates 1Password service account token (`OP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_TOKEN`) as GitHub Actions secret and workflow environment variable until [1Password implements OIDC](https://github.com/1Password/load-secrets-action/issues/53).
<br />
***


**Tensho** commented *Feb 25, 2026*

Wrong organisation repo base.
***

