# WIP - feat: Bumping Pipelines CLI to `v0.13.0`

**yhakbar** commented *Jun 24, 2024*

This is to support the new Pipelines configuration system that does not require configurations like the `.gruntwork/config.yml` or the `accounts.yml` to be present for certain job types.

This change is backwards compatible and customers using legacy configurations should see no undesired changes to how Pipelines works.

Note, however, that this release does include a breaking change, in that certain change types are no longer supported. See the "Breaking Changes" section below for more information.

These changes have been removed, as they are not desirable for the average customer.

## Breaking Changes

Removed the following change types as they are no longer intended to be supported:

- `EnvCommonDeleted`
- `EnvCommonAdded`
- `PipelinesPermissionAdded`
- `PipelinesPermissionDeleted`
- `PipelinesPermissionChanged`
- `PipelinesEnvCommonPermissionAdded`
- `PipelinesEnvCommonPermissionDeleted`
- `PipelinesEnvCommonPermissionChanged`

## EnvCommon Changes

These changes being removed are due to the fact that they behave in a way that isn't desireable for how we want to handle changes to the `_envcommon` directory.

The only time we need to take action in response to a change in the `_envcommon` directory is when a file has changed. For added, or deleted files, the only changes that should happen are from changes that are also caught as `Module*` changes.

## Pipelines Permission Changes

These changes are being removed because they relate to the legacy approach to Pipelines permissions management where Pipelines needed to have secondary roles that were managed by the primary roles in order to avoid Pipelines losing it's own permissions in the middle of a run.

This is no longer the case, and Pipelines roles are named in such a way that these changes should be irrelevant now anyways.


<br />
***


**yhakbar** commented *Jul 3, 2024*

This was implicitly integrated. This PR was left open too long due to a delay in testing. 
***

